---
title: "My CTF Experience"
laoyout: default
---

<h2>Learn from my mistakes</h2>

The Magnet Forensics CTF Tools & Tips session conducted by Jessica Hyde and Kevin Pagano covered lots of tips on solving CTF challenges, do's and don'ts and lot of other things that helped throughout the competition.

As a first timer in CTF, here are some things that helped me answer a lot of questions quickly.

1. I referred to the previous years CTF Writeups that has helped me understand the pattern, had all the images pre-processed and all the most common tools in one place.
2. I did some pre-analysis of all the images provided just to get a quick understanding of a general scenario and any related artifacts. Having notes would have helped better during the competition.
3. As the competition started, I took a minute to glance through the questions first so I start answering the section where I felt more confident.
4. I answered most of the 5, 10 and 15 points questions first, if I needed more time, I would jump to the next question. Sometimes I have found answers to it while looking for another flag.
5. Most of the clues are in the question, for example the Android question "What language the website is in?" and the pun was "I love Natur". But DONT do this if you have limited attempts.

Challenges & Mistakes:
1. Quite a few times I spent too much of time on questions where I felt confident of the answer but it was wrong. I kept digging into it wasting.
2. I could not answer a few easiest limited attempt questions 1 - because I overlooked the "attempts" part in the question once for the first such question, 2 - because I was overconfident of my answer.
3. I was disappointed once when couldn't find the first flag of the section, but as I moved on to the next ones I was able to answers the consecutive questions really quick.
4. I was able to answer 10, 15 and sometimes 25 points worth questions quicker than 5 points because I did a lot of over thing

Some simple mistakes that I did

1. Dressing, with a dash. of 17 spices - Decode the secret message: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UuqI4YZDbvZcieXE4-t5BhEqiPHsGkIC/view?usp=drive_link

Lessons Learned:
1. Don't spend more than a minute or 2 answering low point questions.
2. Don't overthink, 
